While it's exciting to have a test network up and running,
we can't do much if we can't make any transactions.
To make transactions, we'll need test net coins.
To get these coins,
either someone could send them to you or you can go to what's known as a public faucet.
In this video, we'll walk you through the steps to
help you get test net coins using a public faucet.
By following the steps in this video,
you'll have your first coins available in your Bitcoin core wallet.
A Bitcoin faucet is a website that gives rewards in the form of Bitcoin.
These faucets exists on both the test net and the main net.
So yes, you can go to a faucet and get actual Bitcoins right now,
but they don't give you very much.
It's actually so little,
it's not actually worth your effort if you're thinking of doing this for profit.
On the test net, none of these coins have any value.
So, you can use a faucet to get a decent amount of
test coins to facilitate your test transactions.
Let's go ahead and do that.
To start, load up your wallet in the test network.
Remember that you can do this by typing in testnet equals one
in your Bitcoin.configuration file and then restarting your application.
Once inside your wallet,
checkout the overview page to see how much Bitcoin you currently have.
Now, unless you've been messing around with your wallet previously,
like I have here,
you probably see that you have a balance of zero,
and there should be no transactions.
Now, before we can receive testnet coins,
we need to copy a receiving address from your Bitcoin wallet.
To do this, go to file,
and then receiving addresses.
If you don't have any addresses here already,
you can always create a new one by clicking the "New" button.
Give a label for your address.
I'm going to name mine here "Public faucet
test" and then hit "OK".
Once this is created, right-click on the address and select "Copy address".
We'll be pacing this address into the public faucet that we're about to visit.
Now faucets come and go and there's not really
any one place that everyone should go to get their test coins.
If you ever do you need to though,
you can always search for the phrase testnet faucet and then just find one that you like.
But for now, I like this one here provided by the Bitcoin testnet sandbox.
We provided a link to this faucet down below the video.
And it also comes up as one of the first options when you do search in Google.
Alright. So, another way here,
getting coins is really easy.
All you need to do is paste your receiving address into the space provided here.
If there's a capture that says "I'm not a robot", go ahead and click that.
I don't have one here already because I already used this.
Then click "Give me some coins."
This starts the transaction and
testnet coins should be available in your wallet just shortly.
There's a couple of things I want you to know about this website before we leave.
First, like we mentioned,
there's a limited number of test coins that do exist.
Even though they have no value,
there are a way for the community to have access to coins that they can test with.
Now because of that, you'll notice that there's a receiving address
down here that you can send these tests coins back to when you're done.
In doing so, it helps the community and it's really useful that's your
send your coins back that you're no longer using back to this address.
This will allow other developers to have the same access that you do right
now and help avoid the need to create a whole new testnet for in the future.
Secondly, if you saw the capture or the clicking "I'm not a robot"
is to avoid spammers from taking
all the testnet coins by quickly submitting requests over and over.
You can also scroll down on the site to
see a list of the previous transactions that have been made.
Now, there's nothing too interesting here but it's worth mentioning.
Finally, you'll see the current balance of the wallet that is distributing
the test coins as well as the amount that you'll receive by having made the request.
Alright. So, back in the wallet. Here you might see
the pending request or it might have confirmed already.
If not, it might take a little bit longer but if there really does seem to be a problem,
check that you've submitted the correct receiving
address and then try again if you haven't received any coins.
Here in the overview page,
we can see the recent transaction that's adding the testnet coins to your account.
You'll also see that your available balance has increased,
which is now reflected in your total balance.
All right. So, that wraps it up for how to get
access to test coins using a public faucet.
There were some extra details in here throughout the video
since it was our first time walking through this so,
it did take a little bit longer.
In the future, remember all you need to do is paste
your receiving address into the faucet and you should quickly get some new coins.
Coming up, we'll put these coins to use by making our first wallet transaction.